Refs #37189 - Registration before & after snippets (#2855)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/proc_customizing-registration-by-using-snippets.adoc

[id="customizing-registration-by-using-snippets"]
= Customizing registration by using snippets

You can customize the registration process without editing the *Global Registration* template by creating snippets that the template includes if they exist.
To add custom steps to registration, create one or both of the following snippets:

* `before_registration` {endash} This snippet will be loaded and executed by the *Global Registration* template at the beginning of registration.
* `after_registration` {endash} This snippet will be loaded and executed by the *Global Registration* template at the end of registration.

You have to name the snippets precisely.
Otherwise, they cannot be recognized.

.Prerequisites

> * Your {Project} account has a role that grants the `view_provisioning_templates`, `create_provisioning_templates`, and `<something to save it>` permissions.

Author: @stejskalleos I tested the procedure and I was unable to save the new snippet when my account had just `view_provisioning_templates` and `create_provisioning_templates` permissions. Can you please help me to figure out what other permissions are required?

Author: (Discussed on a chat.) There's a bug that requires permissions `assign_organizations` and `assign_locations`, which shouldn't be needed for snippets. This PR https://github.com/theforeman/foreman/pull/10078 should fix it.

[id="customizing-registration-by-using-snippets"]
= Customizing registration by using snippets

> You can customize the registration process without editing the *Global Registration* template by creating snippets that the template includes if they exist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can customize the registration process without editing the `Global Registration` template by creating snippets that the template automatically includes if they exist.
```

alternative to "automatically": "by default, {Project} includes...".

Reviewer 2: The part with `if they exist` at the end tripped me up :) Would the sentence work without it? (I think it would.) Alternatively, how about this?

```suggestion
You can customize the registration process by creating snippets for the `Global Registration` template. The template includes the snippets automatically if they exist. This does not require editing the template.
```

This is much longer, but by presenting the information in multiple shorter sentences (one fact = one sentence) reduces the risk of users having to re-read.

To add custom steps to registration, create one or both of the following snippets:

> * `before_registration` {endash} This snippet will be loaded and executed by the *Global Registration* template at the beginning of registration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `before_registration` {endash} This snippet will be loaded and executed by the *Global Registration* template before registering your host to {Project}.
```

line 8: "... _after_ registering ..."

> * `after_registration` {endash} This snippet will be loaded and executed by the *Global Registration* template at the end of registration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`after_registration`:: This snippet is loaded and executed by the *Global Registration* template at the end of registration.
```

Author: Hell yeah

> You have to name the snippets precisely.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Make sure you name the snippets precisely.
```
Feels more direct :shrug:

Reviewer 2: Also, how about turning this into an IMPORTANT admonition?

Author: Well, we used to avoid admonitions really hard in order not to "overadmonition" the docs. So I'm not sure what stand to take on this.
@maximiliankolb Opinion?

Reviewer: I don't think an admonition is necessary here. Maybe "Ensure that you have named the snippet `X`."?

Author: I think it's clear enough.

> Otherwise, they cannot be recognized.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Otherwise, {Project} will not add them to the `Global Registration` template.
```
I highly recommend to add these details to specify what's going on.

.Prerequisites
* Your {Project} account has a role that grants the `view_provisioning_templates` and `create_provisioning_templates` permissions.

> * You have to select a particular organization and location context.

Reviewer: This feels weird to me. a) it's almost always required to select a context; b) you have to assign the snippets to a specific org/loc context.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Select a particular organization and location context.
```
or
```suggestion
* A particular organization and location context have been selected.
```
I think the second one would be better in terms of parallelism, but it's also much longer :shrug:

Author: How about "You have selected..."?

.Procedure
. In the {ProjectWebUI}, navigate to *Hosts* > *Templates* > *Provisioning Templates*.
. Click *Create Template*.
. In the *Name* field, enter the name of the required snippet.

> . In the template editor, create your snippet.

Reviewer: Maybe mention the exact names again?

Reviewer 2: Or how about moving the whole information about snippets to this step?

```
. In the *Name* field, enter the name of the required snippet:
.. To create a snippet that is loaded before registration:
.. To create a snippet that is loaded after registration:
```

I'm suggesting this because it's a good idea to mention the names again (as Maximilian suggests), but on the other hand, that would introduce duplication. And users will need to know how to name the snippets when following the steps, so if we want to avoid duplication, the procedure would be a better fit.

Author: I'll just mention the names.

[id="customizing-registration-by-using-snippets_{context}"]

> = Customizing registration by using snippets

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Customizing host registration by using snippets
```

You can customize the registration process by creating snippets with pre-defined names.
The `Global Registration` template includes these snippets automatically.
To add custom steps to registration, create one or both of the following snippets:

`before_registration`:: This snippet is loaded and executed by the `Global Registration` template before registering your host to {Project}.
`after_registration`:: This snippet is loaded and executed by the `Global Registration` template after registering your host to {Project}.

Ensure you name the snippets precisely.
Otherwise, the `Global Registration` template cannot load them.

.Prerequisites
* Your {Project} account has a role that grants the `view_provisioning_templates` and `create_provisioning_templates` permissions.
* You have selected a particular organization and location context.

.Procedure
. In the {ProjectWebUI}, navigate to *Hosts* > *Templates* > *Provisioning Templates*.
. Click *Create Template*.
. In the *Name* field, enter the name of the required snippet, `before_registration` or `after_registration`.
. In the template editor, create your snippet.
. On the *Type* tab, select *Snippet*.

> . Click *Submit*.

Reviewer: IMHO it's missing the assignment to an org+loc context.
